Star Wars: Battlefront

Genres:				First-person shooter, third-person shooter
Developers:			Pandemic Studios (2004–2005)
					Free Radical Design (2005–2008)
					Rebellion Developments (2007–2009)
					Slant Six Games (?–2010)
					LucasArts (2008–2013)
					Digital Illusions CE (2013–present)
Publishers: 		LucasArts (2004–2013)
					Electronic Arts (2013–present)
					Disney Interactive Studios (2013–present)
First release:		Star Wars: Battlefront
					September 21, 2004
Latest release:		Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron
					November 3, 2009
Official website:	http://www.starwarsbattlefront.com

Star Wars: Battlefront is a series of first- and third-person shooter video games based on the Star Wars films by George Lucas. Originally published by LucasArts beginning in 2004, EA DICE has taken over the franchise following The Walt Disney Company's acquisition of LucasArts. Players take the role of soldiers in either of two opposing armies in different time periods of the Star Wars universe.

The series commenced in 2004 with Star Wars: Battlefront, developed by Pandemic Studios for LucasArts. The game received positive reviews and sold well. In 2005 Pandemic developed a sequel, Star Wars: Battlefront II, which was also critically and commercially successful. The games were followed by Star Wars Battlefront: Renegade Squadron (2007) and Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron (2009) for handheld consoles and Star Wars Battlefront: Mobile Squadrons for mobile devices. LucasArts made several attempts to get a third major Battlefront game off the ground before the Disney purchase. Subsequently, EA Dice acquired a license to develop a new game, Star Wars Battlefront, to be released in 2015.

Gameplay
Games in the Battlefront series normally revolve around two armies – the Galactic Republic versus the Confederacy of Independent Systems or the Galactic Empire versus the Rebel Alliance – fighting each other on various maps. Maps take place in the Star Wars galaxy, with battlezones varying in theme and size. Across the battlefield are multiple "command posts" (objectives) that act as spawn points, and can be controlled by either the player or the computer. Units can spawn from any friendly command post, and vehicles regularly spawn at their respective command posts when destroyed. Units can capture neutral or hostile command posts by approaching them and standing within the immediate vicinity for about 30 seconds. The time to capture quickens with more friendly units within the capture zone. Some vehicles act as mobile command posts, and must be destroyed as they can not be captured. On some maps (such as Hoth or Endor), certain structures also act as command posts that can not be captured. Command post capturing works differently on certain campaign missions as well. Playable heroes and villains play a significant role in changing the course of battles.

The objective of most matches is to eliminate all of the opponents' reinforcement tickets or to capture the command points, to slowly chip away at their tickets. Reinforcement tickets are used whenever a unit is killed, or when one faction controls a majority of the command posts on the map (usually when the losing faction only has 2-3). Only one objective needs to be completed. When all command posts are captured, the team with no command posts has twenty seconds to recapture or neutralize an enemy command post. If the team cannot take over a post in this time, the match is over. Certain campaign levels and multiplayer have requirements that differ from the general game play, however the general structure remains the same.